Adventures in SQL - Notes

Simple text adventure game, written in SQL and playable directly from
the SQL console.

How to play:

To install, create a new MySQL 5.1 (or later) database and import
sqladvent.sql into it. Fire up a SQL console, select the new database,
and type:

SELECT newgame();

...and you're off and running.

Commands:

SELECT save();
SELECT score();
SELECT inventory();
SELECT take(object); -- E.g. SELECT take("key");
SELECT drop(object); -- E.g. SELECT drop("key");
SELECT give(object, target); -- E.g. SELECT give("key", "Bob");
SELECT use(object, target); -- E.g. SELECT use("key", "door");
SELECT wear(object); -- E.g. SELECT wear("fine hat");
SELECT wield(object); -- E.g. SELECT wield("dagger");
SELECT hit(creature); -- E.g. SELECT hit("troll");
SELECT speak(creature); -- E.g. SELECT speak("troll");
SELECT look();
SELECT exits();
SELECT go(direction); -- E.g. SELECT go("n"); SELECT go("north");

SELECT n(); -- shorthand for SELECT go("north");.

-- Directions supported:
n, s, e, w, ne, nw, se, sw, u, d;
north, south, east, west, northeast, northwest, southeast, southwest,
up, down.


The game plan:

You are a programmer at Xyzzyxoft. You arrive at work one Saturday to
discover that you are the only person left on the campus. What has
happened to the rest of the employees who are supposed to be working
overtime? You find a USB key on the ground outside

Puzzles:

- You need to make fire in the server room to scare the trolls, but
  the automatic fire retardant system will put out your torch.

- A pesky AI must be tricked with semantics; not sure the exact puzzle
  here but something along the lines of the door in HGTTG who wants
  you to prove that you are sentient. Perhaps the AI will deactivate
  the fire retardant system if you show it a fire extinguisher with
  the word "AUTOMATIC" written on the side of it?


HINTS:

- You can hit more than just creatures. (Some other things that might
  be worth hitting: the snack machine, the fire alarm glass, Bob's
  stuck filing cabinet, the mainframe...)

- 

FAQ:

Q. What do I do if it doesn't work?
A. Try to debug it yourself. If that fails, feel free to contact
anyone besides me.

Q. Are any other database engines supported?
A. No. I wrote the original version in PostgreSQL 8.1, but this
version has been lost to history due to me not bothering to backup my
scratch/tinkering project folder.

Q. Does in run on MySQL 4.x?
A. I doubt it.

Q. Why did you do this?
A. Because I wanted to prove Greenspun's Tenth Rule in as absurd terms
as I could without actually resorting to a language designed
specifically to prove Greenspun's Tenth Rule in as absurd terms as
possible. (E.g. Brainf*ck)



